our un Security Council envoys have
traveled to the Rafa border region with
Gaza they were briefed on the
humanitarian situation by the UN Agency
for Palestinian refugees before heading
to the RAF crossing the UN says hundreds
of thousands of people in Gaza are
starving and Aid isn't
enough the main reason I will be going
to Gaza is to tell my staff that the UN
intention is to stay and to find way to
scale up our operation you know that few
days ago I have sent a letter to the
president of the general assembly and I
have warned about the risk that un might
not be able to continue to operate
because of the Civil order breakdown we
hear for the first time that hunger is
prevailing in Gaza more and more people
haven't eaten for one day two days three
days the last time I went was 2 weeks
ago when I visited the vocational
training center of ranun Hosting more
than
35,000 people I could see already fir
hand the level of Despair the level of
dispossession people lack absolutely
everything well that trip comes as the a
situation in Gaza continues to get worse
Palestinians who have not eaten for days
have been looting Aid distribution
centers and scrambling to secure
supplies for themselves and their
families only a small number of Aid
trucks are Crossing into Rafa from Egypt
each
day Juliet tumer is the global
communications director for the UN
Agency for Palestinian refugees H and
she joins us now from am man thanks very
much for for your time um Juliet so
what's what's been the uh assessment
then of the team that that just went
through
there well our commissioner General is
currently on the ground he is in Gaza
this is the third trip that he makes uh
since the War Began and the purpose is
to go first of all to be with our teams
who have been doing heroic work in
providing life-saving support to people
under exceptional circumstances but also
it's a a message of support to the
people of Gaza who have been going
through a very very brutal War and what
is your colleague's assessment of the
overall humanitarian situation in the
Gaza
Strip going from very very bad to worse
going from a humanitarian crisis that
evolved very early on in this war to a
humanitarian catastrophe and a
humanitarian operation that is being
severely challenged hence the the letter
that our commissioner wrote to the
general assembly and mass movement of
people and exodus of people who continue
to be shoved into what is just over a
quarter of the Gaza Strip and no place
is safe as we've been saying since early
on in this war and people have nowhere
to go do you have are you getting any
sense at all that your um that your
voices are being heard in all of
this the general assembly has called for
a meeting later in the week um what
we've been calling for since early on
and quite often our calls have gone
unheeded is for a humanitarian ceasefire
we saw that the pause was very welcome
it allowed us to bring in much needed
supplies and more importantly it brought
some rest fite and calm to the people in
Gaza after 50 days of a very very heavy
Siege and also brutal bombardment and
loss of life and grief and despair and
we haven't seen any light if you wish
since since then in fact what happened
is the absolute opposite another
evacuation order from the Israeli
authorities and an
intensification in the military
operation and more loss of
lives uh what do you fear for the people
of Gaza the longer this goes on it's
it's been mentioned that there is a very
real fear you know we talked there about
uh uh hunger and um you know people
raiding distribution centers is there a
very real fear that that more more of
that could happen um and and that there
could be more widespread hunger and
starvation and even the spread of
disease
there Gaza is past becoming
unlivable is
becoming a place not for humans diseases
are in indeed spreading including in our
facilities where by the way we're
hosting nine times more than what we had
planned for so 1.3 million people are
now in overcrowded unrest shelters that
are themselves
unprotected um people don't have enough
food and yes they are getting hungry
many of them are getting very
understandably frustrated we have seen
uh breakin into our warehouses and then
some of our a trucks uh they've been
stopped and people literally started
taking food from those trucks and eating
them eating food then and there so it's
a desperate
situation and that shows that if the war
continues Gaza is going to see sink
further into the abies uh we mentioned
earlier that there is a a flow of of Aid
going into Gaza from uh Rafa from Egypt
uh but it's just a trickle at the moment
it's not nearly enough just from from a
practical sense what is it that is
stopping more Aid getting in through
through that point from Egypt is there
more that um that Egypt could be doing
uh to to to get more trucks in
there the aid that has been allowed in
is not at all enough and it's also Rafa
is not a place not a crossing point that
is equipped to receive a massive number
of trucks this is precisely why we've
been calling on the Israeli authorities
to open the other Crossing that we've
been using before the war this is Kim
Shalom and to use that for the trucks
you see before the war that Crossing was
able to process 5 00 trucks both for
humanitarian use and also for commercial
use and right now there are there are no
markets in Gaza I mean when I was there
just a couple of weeks ago every single
shop that we drove past was closed every
pharmacy was closed apart from a few
vegetable stalls here and there and a
couple of bakeries open with very long
lines there's nothing there's no market
so what needs to happen is more openings
including those crossings that is well
controls so that there's a more regular
flow of humanitarian supplies and also
of commercial Goods good to talk to you
Juliet tumer thanks very much for being
with us thank you